README.md, before:

# mb2-analysis

Analysis scripts for ManyBabies 2, corresponding to the Child Development registered report, [Schuwerk, Kampis et al. (accepted pending data collection)](https://psyarxiv.com/x4jbm/). 

For the analysis files of the pilot, look towards the 'Pilot analysis' release or the 'pilot_final' branch.

Subdirectories explanations:

* `helper` stores general helper functions
* `metadata` stores functions that create metadata for preprocessing/analysis
* `import_scripts` contains import scripts for the main dataset.
  * Important notes on how to do this task are in the [MB2 data import guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MEEQicPc1baABDHFasbWoujvj2GwfBGarwrzyS2JQtM/edit).
  * the webcam data was imported by a seperate script, found and explained in the [mb2 webcam eye-tracking repository](https://github.com/adriansteffan/mb2-browser-version?tab=readme-ov-file#data-processing-pipeline)
* `data` (will be created while running the pipeline is gitignored )
  * `01_xy_data` - xy data will be downloaded from osf into this
  * `01_demographic_data` - demographic data will be downloaded from osf into this
  * `02_intermediates` - preprocessing steps will save intermediate rds files here
  * `03_preprocessed` - the result of the preprocessing steps - to be consumed by the analysis script



Issues to deal with:

- demo files need some cleaning up

- Pipeline is glued together, but needs sanity checking/visualization to see if it is working correctly (it probably isn't right now)

- more integrity checking is needed in between operations to validate that data is not lost on accident(need to have a look at every step once more data is here)


- passing the final/correct column names to resample_xy_trial - we could redesign the function to make it agnostic?

- How to standardize pupil sizes?

- cleanup the pipline (a lot of intermediate steps can be combined to make this more compact)

- how to preprocess exclusion data?

- "Eyetracker Calibration" is a media to remove - could this be a misnamed star_calib for some labs (and should be renamed and kept) or is this a different calibration that does not interest us?

## column-wise validations to be implemented
Basic columns need to be validated/tested before we pass them on. 

These are: lab_id, participant_id, media_name, x, y, t, pupil_left, pupil_right

### lab_id
- should be in the list 
- should be characters

### participant_id
- should be characters
- should be unique within lab (how to check) 
- check if it's unique between labs? uniquify?
- from alvin: how to check participant_id: filter for the rows where t is less than lag(t), i.e., timestamps where t “resets”. then see if length(ppt_id) == length(unique(ppt_id))

### media name
- should be characters
- check again that they're in the list
- check that they're unique within participant_id

### x, y
- numbers
- within coordinate system (check coordinate system)
- not all NA within participant_id, lab_id
- different from one another within participant_id, lab_id

### t
- range of t should be on the order of 10^5 and not 10^8
- check that resampling interval is correct
- check that they're unique within participant id, lab id, and media name

### pupil_left, pupil_right
- check that units are scaled
- check not all NA within participant_id, lab_id



## leftover text from the files (delete?):

Processing tasks that we will do centrally:

Reconcile media names - Code done, renamings for new datasets still pending
Create trial numbers - done
Standardize media names - Code done, renamings for new datasets still pending
Zero times within trials - done
Resample times - done
Clip XY outside of screen coordinates - done
Flip coordinate origin - Done
Create/process AOIs - Done

Standardize pupil sizes

Commit message:

Add reminder about webcam exclusions

README.md, after:

# mb2-analysis

Analysis scripts for ManyBabies 2, corresponding to the Child Development registered report, [Schuwerk, Kampis et al. (accepted pending data collection)](https://psyarxiv.com/x4jbm/). 

For the analysis files of the pilot, look towards the 'Pilot analysis' release or the 'pilot_final' branch.

Subdirectories explanations:

* `helper` stores general helper functions
* `metadata` stores functions that create metadata for preprocessing/analysis
* `import_scripts` contains import scripts for the main dataset.
  * Important notes on how to do this task are in the [MB2 data import guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MEEQicPc1baABDHFasbWoujvj2GwfBGarwrzyS2JQtM/edit).
  * the webcam data was imported by a seperate script, found and explained in the [mb2 webcam eye-tracking repository](https://github.com/adriansteffan/mb2-browser-version?tab=readme-ov-file#data-processing-pipeline)
* `data` (will be created while running the pipeline is gitignored )
  * `01_xy_data` - xy data will be downloaded from osf into this
  * `01_demographic_data` - demographic data will be downloaded from osf into this
  * `02_intermediates` - preprocessing steps will save intermediate rds files here
  * `03_preprocessed` - the result of the preprocessing steps - to be consumed by the analysis script



Issues to deal with:

- demo files need some cleaning up

- Pipeline is glued together, but needs sanity checking/visualization to see if it is working correctly (it probably isn't right now)

- more integrity checking is needed in between operations to validate that data is not lost on accident(need to have a look at every step once more data is here)


- passing the final/correct column names to resample_xy_trial - we could redesign the function to make it agnostic?

- How to standardize pupil sizes?

- cleanup the pipline (a lot of intermediate steps can be combined to make this more compact)

- how to preprocess exclusion data? (-> webcam have an additional exclusion step documented in files that appear in the demographics osf repo - webcam_exclusions folder)

- "Eyetracker Calibration" is a media to remove - could this be a misnamed star_calib for some labs (and should be renamed and kept) or is this a different calibration that does not interest us?

## column-wise validations to be implemented
Basic columns need to be validated/tested before we pass them on. 

These are: lab_id, participant_id, media_name, x, y, t, pupil_left, pupil_right

### lab_id
- should be in the list 
- should be characters

### participant_id
- should be characters
- should be unique within lab (how to check) 
- check if it's unique between labs? uniquify?
- from alvin: how to check participant_id: filter for the rows where t is less than lag(t), i.e., timestamps where t “resets”. then see if length(ppt_id) == length(unique(ppt_id))

### media name
- should be characters
- check again that they're in the list
- check that they're unique within participant_id

### x, y
- numbers
- within coordinate system (check coordinate system)
- not all NA within participant_id, lab_id
- different from one another within participant_id, lab_id

### t
- range of t should be on the order of 10^5 and not 10^8
- check that resampling interval is correct
- check that they're unique within participant id, lab id, and media name

### pupil_left, pupil_right
- check that units are scaled
- check not all NA within participant_id, lab_id



## leftover text from the files (delete?):

Processing tasks that we will do centrally:

Reconcile media names - Code done, renamings for new datasets still pending
Create trial numbers - done
Standardize media names - Code done, renamings for new datasets still pending
Zero times within trials - done
Resample times - done
Clip XY outside of screen coordinates - done
Flip coordinate origin - Done
Create/process AOIs - Done

Standardize pupil sizes
